What stops misbehaving, malicious or
poorly implemented service worker
from draining your battery and
taking your bandwidth?
>> That was one of the biggest reactions
against Service Worker when they appear
for the first time.
In fact, Apple was actually one of
the main enemies of Service Worker.
So WebKit didn't want to implement
Service Worker because of that.
There are still online,
The discussions on Twitter between the
Chrome engineers and the Safari engineers.
They're interesting to
analyze those threats anyway.
But anyway,
they were fighting because of this.
So, at the end,
Safari implemented service workers.
They did their own implementation
to make it more secure according to
the WebKit rules.
But actually, the first thing that
happens is that the browser is always in
charge of killing
the Service Worker process.
So if you're taking too much time,
too much thread for a long time,
it will kill you.
It depends on the browser's
implementation at that point.
So if the browser thinks
that you are overusing this,
it will kill you, that's the first part.
So if you have a while true, and in the
while true you are making math operations,
so you are consuming CPU doing nothing for
an infinite loop,
at one point the browser will kill you.
It will kill your thread.
The other part is how to
wake up the Service Worker.
You can't wake up the Service Worker
whenever you want,
only with the pre-arranged use cases.
And one of the use cases is web push.
So your server can send a message
to the Service Worker and
that will wake up the Service Worker.
So at this point, the next question will
be what is stopping me to sending a push
message every 30 seconds and waking up
my Service Worker every 30 seconds?
Well, the browsers already,
Thought about that and
the answer was that,
that silent notifications are forbidden.
That means that every time you wake up
a Service Worker because of a web push,
you're forced to notify
the user something in the OS.
If you don't do that, you have a time sum,
three seconds after you're waking up.
So you woke up,
you have three to five seconds,
it depends on the implementation,
to show a notification to a user.
If you don't do that, and you say,
I'm not going to notify the user,
a generic notification will appear.
So the browser will generate
the notification that says something like,
this website has been updated and
because we don't want that as developers,
because we wanna customize the message.
So that's like how
the browsers are trying to
keep service workers within a secure and
good citizen way of life
within the browser.
And so far, so
we've been working with Service Worker for
five years,
we didn't find big problems actually, so
it's actually working so far.
>> Is it the case that there's no OS
level interaction required if the webpage
is actually in the foreground?
So, that's like,
it requires an OS level notification or
interaction if it's trying to wake
up a backgrounded service worker.
But that would be irritating
if you're just using Twitter-
>> The idea is that it will be irritating
for the user to receive
a notification every 30 seconds.
So, the user will actually go and
say, revoke permission.
And if it's revoking permission for
notification,
then you won't be able to send
any more push messages so
you won't be able to wake up the service
worker anymore, that's how it works.